A 17-year-old boy from Bongolethu in Oudtshoorn is determined to make moves in the livestock agricultural space in the near future, and has his heart pinned on farming and growing his grandparent’s legacy.While many kids enjoy time off playing soccer in the street or roaming around with friends, Cebo Salman spends his spare moments taking care of his calves.Cebo, a grade 10 learner at Fezekile High School, is known for always hearding the livestock to the grazing field. Every time after school the youngster arms himself with his small radio and makes his way to the taking care of his animals.His love for animals is attributed to his grandfather Zolile Salman, a long- time urban livestock farmer in the area. The old man was running a small communal farm on the outskirts of Bongolethu before he retired to his home where he still owns some livestock.Since the tender age of three Cebo used to help his grandfather to feed and milk the animals.The teen boy spoke fondly of his goats, saying that farming is his life. “I spend most of my school holidays and weekends taking care of the calves. I love them and they love me too. I never spend so much time with friends. I always think of my calves,” he says.Although he grew up in the township, Cebo wishes to spend his adult life on a smallholding. “I don’t really bother myself much about the township life. I grew up in the township but I just want to live with animals and live the farm life. I need to learn more about livestock farming and make more money.“Every time I see farmers my brain tells me one thing; that one day I am going to be a wealthy and successful farmer. I always imagine myself owning a flock of goats, cows and sheep on my own farm.“As a young person I would also like to encourage my peers to join me on the farming journey,” he says.Cebo’s uncle, Ayanda Salman, says his nephew had shown interest in farming at a very tender age. “He grew up helping with everything about livestock. I am happy that he will keep the legacy of his grandparents and family when we are all gone. I wish he could pass this on to other children in the area as well.“Livestock farming is our livelihood, and our kids should definitely learn more about the importance of livestock,” Ayanda adds. (By Mpumi Kiva)