While thousands lose their jobs due to the Corona virus pandemic, a young man from Oudtshoorn has created a job for himself that sees him recycling empty bottles of Corona Extra – apparently the most favoured cider of the youth in his area.Eaan Veldeman of GG Camp in Bongolethu wakes up every Sunday and Monday morning to collect bottles of Corona cider from various hang-out spots, including taverns and shebeens for the purpose of recycling these bottles so that he can feed his siblings. The 23-year-old man is now a common sight in the community, walking around in the streets with his trolley always filled with bottles. His trade has now earned him a new name; “Corona”. Veldeman says he is attracted to the Corona bottles because they are easy to handle, pack, and crush unlike the other waste that causes dirt in the yard. He encourages the youth to make money while they are still young and not spend time on drugs and crime. During a visit to Veldeman’s home about six large bags were already filled with crushed bottles ready to be taken to the recycling warehouse. Speaking from his backyard home where he conducts his business, Veldeman urged youngsters not to waste time and to start collecting waste and make money. He also mentioned that he is looking forward to establishing his own recycling warehouse, and employ more young people in the near future. “l have lost hope of ever finding employment. Thousands of people have lost their jobs due to the virus, and it is not going to be easy to find employment. Every week l am able to make some cash, buy food for my family, and electricity. I am also able to buy myself some toiletries and clothes. “I have employed myself and I am hoping to make this business big so that l can provide jobs to the youth around here. There are many unemployed people in our area and most of the youth resort to drugs and alcohol abuse. These bottles are easy to pack, handle and crush, unlike other waste products that dirt all the yard. People call me ‘Corona’ but l don’t mind because l am always going around with these bottles,” he said. A resident in Newlook, France Piet (66), encouraged young people to come up with ideas to earn a living. “We are living in tough times. Our children should adopt other means of surviving. The government grant is not doing enough to support families. Food prices and all the basic necessities have gone up, and all these need money. It’s time for the youth to realise the importance of making money while they are still young,” he said. (By Mpumi Kiva)